**Chapter 10**

Figures 10.1 and 10.2 were made in Stata and [the code is here](Ch10-train-test.do). Figures 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.8 were made in Stata and [the code is here](Ch10-impact.do). Figures 10.3 and 10.7 were made in R and [the code is here](Ch10.R).

Figures [10.1](CV-simple.svg) and [10.2](CV-complex.svg) make some random data, split it into training and test datasets, fit a model to the training data, get predicted values from that model for the y-values in both the training and test datasets and many interpolated points, and then draw the original data as navy blue markers, the predictions for observed values as hollow orange markers, and the predictions at interpolated points as orange lines. The RMS error is added in a caption.

Figure 10.3 shows some [random data on the left](10-cv-data.svg) and the [RMS errors for increasingly complex polynomial models on the right](10-cv-rms.svg). Polynomial models are generally a bad idea, but here they are helpful for illustrating the general point, because they can be understood without much mathematical nicety, and they are nested inside each other. This is a subject expanded on with great clarity in Hastie and colleagues' book, "The Elements Of Statistical Learning".

[Figure 10.4](10-coefplot.svg) is a dot plot where each regression coefficient is a dot, with the horizontal location representing the value of that coefficient. Confidence intervals are shown as error bars, and a vertical reference line at zero shows whether they are associated with a beneficial or harmful effect. Recall that logistic regression gives coefficients (betas) which can be interpreted as logarithms of odds ratios, so here, to be converted to odds ratios, they need to be exponentiated, and their confidence intervals too, which consequently become asymmetric. This uses the IMPACT trial data.

[Figure 10.5](10-margins-simple.svg) and [figure 10.6](10-margins-at.svg) are marginal effects plots, which show effects and confidence intervals like figure 10.4, but this time the software is integrating out the effects of the other variables in the model as they interact or confound the predictor of principal interest (here, length of treatment). This also allows us to convert to risk ratios.

Figure 10.7 is, [left](10-logistic.svg) and [right](10-logistic-wrong.svg), just a scatterplot with binary outcome variable or error encoded to marker colour, and an added line (hardcoded from the known relationship in the data) at 50% chance of a black/white marker.

[Figure 10.8](10-KM.svg) is a standard statistical chart available in many software packages.
