**Chapter 12**

I made figures 12.3 and 12.10 in R, and [the code is here](Ch12.R). Figures 12.7 and 12.9 (all using the Saturn-shaped random data), were also visualised in R, and the images in the book are expended on in [this blog post]() with [the code here](12-saturn-tsne.R). Figure 12.11 was made in Stata ([the code is here](Ch12-radar.do)), using Adrian Mander's radar Figures 12.1, 12.5 and 12.8 were made by other people.

Figure 12.2 is a screenshot of a chart I whipped up quickly in a well-known spreadsheet package made in Redmond, WA. It would be rude to name it; similar presets are available in almost ay entry-level number-crunching software you can name, and to be fair, this particular one has made the 3-D bar chart less prominent in the gallery of formats as time has gone by. I don't recall exactly what I clicked -- and I shouldn't tell you even if I did -- but suffice to say, it only took a few clicks.

[Figure 12.3](12-volcano.svg) is the standard go-to dataset for 3-D graphics examples in R, called `volcano`, which gives altitude values over a grid of latitude and longitude. It's almost embarrassing in its ubiquity, but actually demonstrates the problem of obscuration, while also having an interestingly rough surface, and enough familiarity to make visual understanding quick.

Figure 12.4 was made in R a few years ago while I worked on research into tuberculosis of the eye. I have no SVG or bitmap for it (because of patient confidentiality). I generated a distance matrix between patients, ordered by hospital, and just pushed that into the base R function `image()`. You could, of course, make a prettier one by adjusting the colour scale.

Figure 12.6 is a photograph. I mention it here just for completeness. I obtained the pitta from Co-op Supermarket in Addiscombe and ate it immediately afterwards with some taramasalata. Hand: model's own. Anglo-centric tips for teachers: Pittas are quite good for teaching dimension reduction because each orthogonal axis through the bread produces a slice with quite different range or variance. Baguettes have one very long axis and two much shorter and more similar in bread-range. You might be able to find some kind of *pain rustique* (Brexit notwithstanding) that gives a similar effect to the pitta, while also being visible to a larger roomful of rapt learners, though you should be careful not to give the impression that you are being paid too much with your fancy loaf. 

Figures [12.7](12-saturn1.svg) and [12.9](12.saturn2.svg) are just scatterplots; the projection is the important thing here: it is manually manipulated in 12.7 (see lines 52-54 in the code) and determined by dimension reduction techniques in 12.9.

Figure 12.8 is from Michael Greenacre's book "Correspondence Analysis in Practice". Michael pointed out that may caption mangles the definition somewhat. The vertices of category space are not projected at the points seen in this symmetric map (for example, the one marked "W(full-time)"). They are shrunk towards the origin more than the data points are. You can image the category space being quite large, and the countries not radically different to one another, so scattered around the same region. If we projected everything at the same scale (an asymmetric map), we would get all the data crammed together in the centre of the image, which would be unhelpful for readers. So, we cannot say, for example, that AUS is more keen on "w(part-time)" than NZ. It is closer to the projected vertex point, but the location of the vertex is not accurate -- it is the *direction* of the vertex point you should consider (so, NZ is more inclined to "w(part-time)" than AUS because they are further out from the origin in that direction). Also, RP is the Philippines, not Romania as I seem to have got into my head somehow. If you want to read more about this underused technique, I very much recommend Michael's books, which are superbly clear and practical.

[Figure 12.10](12-dendrogram.svg) is a pretty standard dendrogram using a built-in R dataset, `USArrests`.

[Figure 12.11](12-radar.svg) is particularly easy to do in Stata once you run `ssc install radar`. There are, of course, plenty of ways to achieve radar plots in other software.
