**Chapter 13**

There's one error here on page 171. I refer to pie charts superimposed on a map in Figure 13.5 and bubbles in Figure 13.4. Somehow, when I updated all the figure numbers, I missed those ones. The pie charts got dropped (you can imagine it pretty well without seeing it), and the Hampshire map moved in before the bubbles. So, it should read "One often sees pie charts and bubble charts (Figure 13.5) superimposed like this...".
I made figure 13.2 in Mapbox, figure 13.7 with some R, some OpenStreetMap, smashed together in the GIMP, and I made figure 13.11 with sweet JavaScript.

I made the two parts of Figure 13.2 in [Mapbox](https://www.mapbox.com). Using the Studio feature, you can select various layers, like the boundary of water, the text labels of towns of a certain size, and so on, and make them visible or invisible, and change various stylistic elements like colours and fonts. I recommend Mapbox as an affordable tool allowing you to get to grips with mapping data, without having to invest the time in learning a fully-fledged GIS software package. In this instance, I turned off everything except place names for cities, motorways and major roads, and water. I exported them as raster images, so there is no SVG.

Figure 13.7 is an image I made a few years ago, when I found that the John Snow cholera data had been put online by Robin Wilson. I made a hexagonal bin plot of latitude vs longitude (with the `hexbin` package in R), noting the corner values, then lined that up with a screenshot of contemporary Soho, London, in OpenStreetMap. So, it's all a bit bodged because of its antiquity. Nowadays, I'd suggest making it in R with `ggmap` and adding a `geom_hex()` layer over the top. It is (at least, at the time of writing) the banner on my personal website (look up!), my blog and my Twitter page. Darker hexagons indicate more deaths. At the time, I tinkered with the hexagon size and decided on this one. Although it is small enough to break up the overall blob around the Broad Street pump, it has the advantage of showing individual streets, which makes it more personal and real for me, including some streets that don't exist any more.

Figure 13.11 is a screenshot of a webpage constructed in D3. It serves as my CV or resumé, a rejection of paper templates and a cringingly blatant attempt to appear hip and tech. (But you have to be blatant in CVs.) It's, in large part, developed from [Mike Bostock's example](https://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/1044242), a smarter version of which can be seen [here](https://beta.observablehq.com/@mbostock/d3-hierarchical-edge-bundling).
