**Chapter 16**

The only images in this chapter that I made are Figures 16.2 (the train delays poster) and 16.3 (quality of life in art therapy for dementia).

Figure 16.2 is made from three images in [Chapter 2](../chapter02/Ch2.md). The SVG images were placed into [a large Inkscape canvas](17-poster.svg), along with the raster image of the red leaf, and accompanying text was added there. Note that the file is pretty big for an SVG, because it includes the wasteful raster information. I tried to balance the information to keep it as light as possible, while also allowing readers of low statistical literacy to delve into the patterns in the data. More recently, I found one of several rough sketches, which you can look at [here](salvaged-poster-sketch.jpg). You can see some ideas that were dropped, like a map of railway line radiating from London, and an idea of the scale of the problem (GU2, see Chapter 1). You can read more about the decisions in Chapter 16.

Figure 16.3 came from [the report of a study called RADIQL](http://www.age-exchange.org.uk/what-we-do/inspired-caring/radiql/), which followed art therapists conducting reminiscence sessions for people with dementia in nursing homes. I did the statistical analysis. The model here was a multilevel regression, which you might call panel data if you had some econometric education. There is a linear change over the weeks in both arms of the study, and a quadratic function of time within each session and immediately afterwards, which gave an idea of benefit plateauing and let us look at a rebound/anticlimax effect too. Quadratics are generally are pretty bad idea, but this was relatively easy to explain to the audience and within the circumscribed timescale, didn't zoom off (like you saw in Figure 10.2). There is no SVG for this figure, but [here's a PNG](17-radiql.png).
